
=pod

=head1 NAME

Config - DiCoP Workerframe config file format

You can use perldoc to read this document: C<perldoc README>.

Last update: 2007-10-09

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the files used by the workerframe as config files,
their format and contents.

=head2 File format

All the config files are plain text files. Comments lines start with a C<#>.
These and empty lines are ignored entirely when reading the file.

The rest of lines in configuration files (except the charset list) follow
the format:

	key=value

Where C<key> is the lowercase name of the option, and C<value> it's contents.
The value may be enclosed in quotas like this:

	key="value with spaces"

This is especially useful for spaces, but not necessarily required.

Examples:

	my_option=foobar
	another="With spaces"

=head2 charsets.lst

As with other config files, comment and empty lines will be ignored.

The first line B<MUST> be a line following this format:

	count=number

Where C<number> is the number of following charset description lines.

Each charset description line follows this format:

	type:id:charsetdefinition

C<type> is going from 0 to 3. Here is a list:

	0	SET_SIMPLE
	1	SET_GROUPED
	2	SET_DICTIONARY
	3	SET_EXTRACT

The C<id> is the unique ID number of the charset.

The C<charsetdefinition> varies between the different types of character sets.
	
=over 2

=item SET_SIMPLE

A list of characters, in hex, separated by C<:>.

=item SET_GROUPED

A list of C<pos,charset_id> pairs, separated by C<:>.

=item SET_DICTIONARY

A list of C<pos,charset_id,min_length,max_length> pairs, separated by C<:>.
C<pos> is the position (0 - prepend, 1 - append) on where to put strings from
C<charset_id> of length C<min_length .. max_length> to each of the words
from the dictionary charset.

=item SET_EXTRACT

Empty, no options. A L<chunk description file> is used to describe the
further options.

=back


=head2 Job description file (JDF)

The JDF (formerly known as charset description file) is used when the
C<charset_id> given to a worker is not a plain number, but a filename like
C<../../target/data/42/42.set>. 

The reason is that this file can contain additional parameters specific to
each job that are impossible to carry over the command line.

=over 2

=item charset_id

ID of the charset to use. This B<MUST> be a plain number like 5.

=item dictionary_file

Name of the file containing the dictionary.

Only used if L<charset_id> is of the type SET_DICTIONARY.

This key can also be set in the chunk description file.

=item dictionary_mutations

Bit field describing the various dictionary mutations applied to each word.
There are currently eleven different mutations and the maximum value is thus
2047.

Only used if L<charset_id> is of the type SET_DICTIONARY.

This key can also be set in the chunk description file.

The different bits are defined as follows:

 #define		      Decimal	Description
 ===========================================================
 DICT_LOWER                         1	lowercase
 DICT_UPPER                         2	UPPERCASE
 DICT_LOWER_FIRST                   4	lOWERFIRST
 DICT_UPPER_FIRST                   8	Upperfirst
 DICT_LOWER_LAST                   16	LOWERLASt
 DICT_UPPER_LAST                   32	upperlasT
 DICT_UPPER_ODD                    64	uPpErOdD
 DICT_UPPER_EVEN                  128	UpPeReVEn
 DICT_UPPER_VOWELS                256	UppErvOwEls
 DICT_UPPER_CONSONANTS            512	uPPeRCoNSoNaNTS
 DICT_ORIGINAL			 1024	The word as written

=item dictionary_stages

Bit field describing the various dictionary stages applied to each word.

There are currently two, C<forward> and C<reverse>.

Only used if L<charset_id> is of the type SET_DICTIONARY.

This key can also be set in the chunk description file.

=item password_prefix

Deprecated. A fixed prefix for each password in the key space, in hex.

Example:

	password_prefix=31323334

See also L<prefix>.

This key can also be set in the chunk description file.

=item prefix

A fixed prefix for each password in the key space, encoded
in UTF-8.

Example:

	prefix=Müller

This key can also be set in the chunk description file.

=item extra0, extra1, extra2, ...

These are extra parameters for the job, that follow this format:

	extra0=44454647,313233

The first part up to the C<,> is the parameter name (which can usually
be ignored if there is only one expected extra parameter) and the
second part is the parameter value.

=back

The job description file is read and used automatically by the
framework.


=head2 Chunk description file (CDF)

A chunk description file is used when the normal parameters C<start>,
C<end>, C<charset> and C<target> are not enough to describe the options
to the worker. It also has the advantage to shorten the command line.

A CDF will be used instead of a JDF when there are parameters that change
with each chunk.

Instead of calling the worker like this:

	./worker start end target charset [timeout]

or this:

	./worker start end target charset_description_file [timeout]

it will be called like this:

	./worker ../../target/chunk_description_file.txt [timeout]

The current reserved/used keys in the chunk description file are
the same as in the JDF, with the following additions:

=over 2

=item charset_id

ID of the charset to use. This can be either a plain number (like: "5") or
a name of a L<charset description file> (like "42.set").

If it is not a plain number, the file named will be opened and the options
from there will also be used. See L<Charset description file> for details.

Since it is also possible to use all the settings from a charset description
file inside the chunk description file, it is easier to set them directly
(in this chunk description file) instead of referring to another file (in an
additional charset description file). But the current workerframe supports
both ways. The current server implementation will always use a numerical
charset ID here.

See also: L<charset_type>

=item charset_type

Instead of setting the charset by specifying its number, you can also just
give the type of it via C<charset_type> by using one of the following strings:

	dictionary
	extract
	simple
	grouped

The workerframe will then use an example charset of the correct type. Mostly
usefull for C<dictionary> and C<extract>.

=item image_file

Name of the image file for extracting strings. Only used if the charset (see
L<charset_id> is of the type SET_EXTRACT.

=item start

Start password in hex, or in case of SET_EXTRACT minimum length to extract.

=item end

End password in hex, or in case of SET_EXTRACT maximum length to extract.

=item target

Either a target hash or file name.

=item extractset_id

Only used if the L<charset_id> is of type SET_EXTRACT. Contains ID of a simple
character set describing the strings that are valid to extract.

=item extract_skip_invalids

When set to a non-zero value, invalid characters will be just ignored upon
extraction, instead of terminating the currently extracted string. 

Example, assuming we extract all lower case letters, strings of length 3, and
find this:

	foo.bar

If set to 0, only C<foo> and C<bar> will be extracted. If set to 1, the
following list of strings will be extracted:

	foo
	oob
	oba
	bar

Warning, enabling this option will generate a lot more strings, especially if
the source contains just some random bytes. See C<extract_odd_even> for a
more gentle way of extracting extra strings.

=item extract_odd_even

When extracting strings, and this option set to 1, will also extract strings
by looking only at every odd (or later every even) byte. This will catch strings
in simple Unicode format or other formats that are like this:

	00 41 00 42 00 43 00 44		.A.B.C.D

This can be combined with C<extract_skip_invalids>, but will then generate lots
of strings.

=item debug_trace

When extracting passwords, will output more information about the number of
strings extracted and the current activity. Use only in interactive mode, because
for long runs a lot of information can be generated.

C<debug_trace> is a debug level:

	0		nearly no debug output
	1		light debug output summary
	2		extensive debug output

=item dictionary_file_offset

Offset into the dictionary file, at which the word from C<start> can be found.
This enables the worker to skip quickly to the first word, instead of scanning
the file over and over again (for each chunk).

=item input_encoding

Specify the encoding of the input passwords, either for the dictionary file
(C<dictionary>), the image file (C<extract>), or for the passwords generated
by a C<simple> or C<grouped> charset.

As a special case, image files (type C<extract>) can contain different
encodings and these are specified with the different C<extract_XXX> settings
like L<extract_utf8>.

Examples:

	charset_type=dictionary
	dictionary=iso8859.txt
	input_encoding=ISO-8859-1

The default values are as follows:

	Charset type		Encoding
	----------------------------------------
	dictionary		UTF-8
	extract			UTF-8
	simple			ISO-8859-1
	grouped			ISO-8859-1

=item output_encoding

Specify a list of the encodings that each password should be produced in.

This is ignored by workers that use one or more specific encodings for the
passwords.

Examples:

	output_encoding=UTF-8
	output_encoding=ISO-8859-1,UTF-16

=back

The following keys are normally specified in a JDF, but can also be specified
in the CDF to make manual setups easier. See above for further information. If
they are specified in both files, then CDF takes precedence.

The current server implementation will always write only a JDF or CDF,
depending on whether per-chunk parameters are necessary (CDF) or not (JDF).

=over 2

=item password_prefix

Deprecated. A fixed prefix for each password in the key space, in hex.

Example:

	password_prefix=31323334

See also L<prefix>.

This key can also be set in the chunk description file.

=item prefix

A fixed prefix for each password in the key space. The encoding of the
prefix can be specified with L<prefix_encoding> and defaults to UTF-8.

Example:

	prefix=Müller

This key can also be set in the chunk description file.

=item config_encoding

The encoding of the config file itself, defaults to UTF-8. Any text that
is not in hex (like L<prefix>) will then be interpreted as to be in this
encoding. Example:

	prefix=Müller
	config_encoding=ISO-8859-1

=item dictionary

Specifies the file to be used as a dictionary, when the charset
type is C<SET_DICT>.

=item dictionary_file

Is an alias for C<dictionary>.

=item dictionary_stages

=item dictionary_mutations

=back

As with the charset description file, the chunk description file is read
and used automatically by the framework.

=head1 AUTHOR

(C) Bundesamt fuer Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik 1998-2007.

For licensing information please refer to the LICENSE file.

=head2 Contact

Address: BSI
	 Referat 123
	 Godesberger Allee 185-189
	 Bonn
	 53175
	 Germany
email:	 dicop @ bsi.bund.de	(for public key see dicop.asc or web site)

